If you look at the solar system,
we basically have eight planets
that everybody knows their names.
And as you look at other stars around the Sun,
it turns out that pretty much every star has a planet,
so we call those planets exoplanets,
planets outside the solar system.
The most successful way to discover exoplanets
is the transit method in which planets
go in front of the star and the light
coming from the star drops by about 1%
and that's how you know that there's a planet there.
The transiting method is a very powerful method
because if we can get enough precision in the measurement
of that transit, you can actually answer questions like,
"What are these planets made of?"
And the way we do this is the light
that we collect from that star
while the planet is going in front of it,
we use things like prisms
and we split that light into different colors.
So by looking at how the depth of the transit changes
as a function of color, we can detect the number
of chemical elements and molecules in the atmosphere
of the planet, such as sodium, potassium,
water, and other molecules.
Hot Jupiters are these very peculiar type of planet,
which is they are about the same size of our own Jupiter,
sometimes a little bit bigger,
sometimes a little bit smaller, but around that size,
but the cool thing about these systems
is that they orbit very, very close to their host star.
Like a typical hot Jupiter
goes around once every three days.
There's nothing like this in the solar system.
This is new science.
The second good thing about hot Jupiters
is that they're very easy to observe.
And I say that they're very easy now.
30 years ago it was difficult, but now it's easy,
so we can get very, very large signals
and we can measure very, very precisely
the properties of these planets.
With this technique, we can observe molecules such as water
and elements such as potassium and sodium.
So why sodium and potassium?
You can learn a lot about how that planet was born
and how it became a hot Jupiter.
That planet most likely started farther out in that system
and somehow it migrated in,
and as it migrated in, was collecting sodium and potassium
from dust grains on the disc where the planet formed.
With the launch of the James Webb Telescope,
we are now witnessing a revolution in this field.
Some of these molecules that we can now observe
in the right environment could be signs of life
producing those molecules in this planet.
This is what we call biosignatures or biomarkers.
For example, if you look at Earth,
we know that there are certain molecules on Earth
that are produced by life.
We know that there is oxygen,
we know that there is methane,
and those molecules would not be stable
in Earth's atmosphere if there wasn't some kind
of organism producing them.
And in addition to that,
we will have to look at other properties of the planet.
We will have to look at whether the planet
is rocky or not, i.e., the density.
We will have to look at the temperature of the planet.
We will have to look at the ultraviolet radiation
coming from the star to see if life can survive,
so once we put all these pieces together,
I do believe that we will find life somewhere.
It's not gonna be easy, but I do believe that we'll do it.
So now it's your turn to apply what you have learned
about spectroscopy to exoplanet atmospheric spectra
and propose what molecule or molecules
you want to search for in real JWST data.
(upbeat music)